 $Id: README,v 1.7 2003/09/02 16:09:10 flanigan Exp $

README file for esmf_build_config directory.

This files in this directory are the site specific makefile fragments
for the ESMF build system.  The subdirectory conf contains the site
specific configure include files.


ESMF Build System Overview
--------------------------

The ESMF build system is broken into two parts.  The first is the
series of makefiles located with the source code.  The second is a set
of makefile fragements files designed to be used by the source code
makefiles.  Makefile fragment files are files that contain makefile
syntax defining build rules and actions, but do not constitute a
complete build system.

There are two makefile fragment files that are used.  The first one is
common.mk in the build directory.  This file is designed to be
included by the top level makefiles.  This file defines build rules
and variables that are used across all platforms.  Users should have
no need to edit this file.

common.mk will include a site specific makefile fragment file located
in build_config.  The included file will follow this naming
convention:

     build_config/ESMF_ARCH.ESMF_SITE.mk


ESMF_ARCH and ESMF_SITE are two environment variables that are either
set by the user or are given default values in common.mk.  ( These
variables are described below.)

The site makefile fragments specify makefile settings for particular
architecture and in some cases individual machines.  The ESMF_ARCH
value used for the first part of the filename specifies the
architecture that the file should be used for.  

The ESMF_SITE value used for the second part of the filename will
either have the value default or a machine's name.  If default is used
then the file in most cases can be used with any machine of the
architecture given by ESMF_ARCH.  If a machine's name is used, then
that particular machine uses makefile settings other then the default
settings for its architecture.

ESMF_SITE may also be used to define makefile settings for different
compilers on the same architecture or machine.  ESMF_SITE can be set
to a machine's name, a compiler's name or both.  An example ESMF_SITE
value using both the machine name and the compiler name would be
jazz_lahey.  The following site file contains settings for compiling
with the Lahey Fortran90 compiler on a linux machine named jazz:


      build_config/Linux.jazz_lahey.mk


Current site files for supported platforms:

      build_config/AIX.default.mk
                   IRIX64.default.mk
                   OSF1.defalut.mk

Current site files for unsupported platforms:

      build_config/Linux.lahey.mk
                   Darwin.defalut.mk
                   SunOS.default.mk

Notice that there is no default site value for Linux machines.  This
is because there is no common Fortran90 Linux compiler.

The build system can be ported to other Unix platforms by adding new
site and conf.h files.  The new site file has to follow the naming
convention used by the existing site files and be created in
build_config.  The new site file will also have to define the same
makefile variables as the existing site files.

The conf.h files are used to define machine attributes within C and C++
source code.  The build system stores the conf. h files in
subdirectories in build_config/conf.  The subdirectories following a
naming convention using the environment variables ESMF_ARCH, ESMF_PREC
and ESMF_SITE.  The naming convention is:
  
      build_config/conf/EMSF_ARCH.ESMF_PREC.ESMF_SITE/conf.h

Like site files, new conf.h files have to define the same machine
attributes as existing conf.h files.  If a machine supports both 32
and 64 bit precision, then two conf.h files and the directories they
are stored in are needed.  Example:

      build_config/conf/AIX.32.default/conf.h
      build_config/conf/AIX.64.default/conf.h



Environment Variables
---------------------

 ESMF_ARCH         Variable describing the current
                   machine architecture.  Default value
                   is value returned by uname -s

 ESMF_PREC         Variable specifying the precession
                   build arguments.  Value can be 32 or
                   64.  When possible the default value will
 	           be 64, otherwise it will be 32.

 ESMF_SITE         If ESMF_SITE is not set or has the value of
                   default,  default build settings for the
                   current machine architecture will be used.
                   Values are created from a machine's name and
                   if needed, the compiler used.  Example ESMF_SITE
                   values could be blackforest or jazz_lahey.


 ESMF_BOPT         Variable specifying that the build system
                   use either debugging  or optimization options.
                   Value of g specifies the debugging options.
                   Value of O (capital oh) specifies optimization
                   options.  Default value is O.


In addition the top level directory path of the source code being
built will have to be specified.  Those variables are described in
detail in the README file of the source code being built.






